Motivation

The dataset was created in the process of completing the Imperial College Professional Certificate in Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Black Box Optimisation capstone project. In this challenge, the student was tasked with maximising the value of eight black box functions with an extremely limited number of evaluations, submitted weekly over the course of the project. 
The dataset was created by Alex Llewelyn.
Composition

The dataset contains the initial dataset provided as well as the submitted X values for evaluation and the processed result. They are organised as CSV files with columns, X0, X1,…, Xn, y, type. The inputs are provided to 6 decimal places and outputs with full-floating point precision. Type indicates whether the data are from the initial dataset or a submitted point. The dataset contains a complete set of data provided and submitted over the course of the project.
Collection Process

The initial dataset was provided by Imperial College and was generated by an undisclosed process. The data size varied from 10 to 40 points, depending on the function’s dimensionality.
The query points were generated using the Bayesian Optimisation pipeline described in the model card. The results were provided by Imperial College on a weekly basis after the function was evaluated at the proposed values.
Preprocessing and Uses

The raw data are provided unprocessed. During kernel fitting, the StandardScaler from sklearn was used to normalise the input features to give a mean of zero and a variance of one. Functions 5 and 7 were additionally subjected to a log transformation prior to the StandardScaler.
The main use of this dataset is documenting the progress made during the course of the project. It may be used as a case study for the strategy adopted and examining how progress is typically made during black box optimisation processes: step-changes, plateaus and exploration vs exploitation. 

Distribution and Maintenance

The dataset is publically available on the alexllew/Capstone_Project_2025-2026 github page in the data folder as separated csv files for each function. The data are curated and maintained by Alex Llewelyn.
